[SWISH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> See the game is now to
start to respect what's in you
and to get over this dependency
which brings you here,
actually.
We're very straight about it.
The reason you're
here is because you
don't know your it yet.
Otherwise, what the
hell are you doing here?
You don't need me.
I'm only here to remind
you that your it.
If I do my work
perfectly, you'll
walk out of here feeling
stronger than you walked in.
With the breathing
exercise, with the following
of the breath, with a couple
of books of the words of people
who've made it, and with the
needs of your incarnation
in terms of the needs to
help things around you
to alleviate suffering and
to take care of your body
and alleviate your
own suffering.
So everything from then
on is your own lack
of faith, which
you can recognize.
You can go take a
course in meditation.
Did you say I just need
help, I need some support,
I'm not strong enough?
But don't cater to that
thing, don't get desperate
because it's still a copout.
Now at first, what
will happen is
your meditations will start
to give you that quiet space,
or your week-long retreat will
give you that quiet space.
And then you will come
back into the world,
and immediately, the stuff will
start to happen to you again,
and you'll lose the space.
And you'll say I came down, and
you'll see down as less close
to God than up.
Fallacy.
Down and up are all
part of the journey.
When you go on a road, you will
notice the road dips and rises
and dips and rises, but
the roads are always
moving in a certain direction.
I think you're beginning to
recognize that your depression
is your down states.
In fact, every state that
happens to you all the time
is part of the process
if you will just
give it space to be that
rather than saying if I only
didn't have that, I
could go on to God.
It's all energy, it's
all patterns of energy.
There are teachings in
every state you have.
You see about your
attachment to pain,
your attachment to suffering.
You're clinging as you
get to see all of them
in vivid technicolor.
Now in fact, the only
reason the marketplace
brings you down is because
of your own desires.
If you didn't want
anything, as I said before,
New York City and
a Himalayan cave
would be exactly the same place.
You are only brought down
by your own attachments.
And the point is
that, at first, it's
nice to get away from the
stimuli in the environment that
keeps seducing you into
involvement at that level.
You see, this again is a
matter of the degree of faith.
When your faith is too
flickery, every time you forget,
you think you lost it forever.
And you're damned, and curse,
and you fall out of grace,
and you've blown it.
And then you remember again,
and, oh, phew, I'm back.
Oh, I never want to leave here.
When your faith gets
a little stronger,
you know you're hooked,
you really can't lose it.
And when you forget, you
say, far out, I forgot again.
And it's far out,
when you see that
as part of your side
in it, and that's
the business of the
balance of the feet.
See, when your faith
is very flickery
and you think you can get
lost for this entire lifetime
and forget the whole thing
that brought you here,
your weight is primarily
on the center of the circle
because you're terribly
afraid that you're
going to be pulled
back into the world.
But once you have
tasted of that piece,
you've tasted of
the flow of energy,
you start to taste a
little bit of the bliss,
you start to taste a little
of the connectedness,
you feel the
quality of the love,
you start to
experience the passion.
Once that happens, then the
weighting shifts just a bit,
and you actually go out
almost defiantly to get lost,
but you can't.
The truth of the matter is if
you look in your own hearts,
most of you have not had
the faith that you in fact
could change, that you could
be a being of the spirit.
Because many of you had
these spiritual experiences
of awakening, and you
had them through drugs,
you had them through something
like trauma or emotional upset,
which gave you the feeling
they're it, the pill is it,
something's it, but I'm not it.
And that's the
interesting business
that as you start to use
methods like the breathing in
and breathing out, you get
more and more dependent
on the stuff in your
self, not in other people,
or in books, or in the
certain kinds of experience.
But once you have
tasted the bliss,
you have all the
ingredients you need
to become totally realized.